_fragment of 'The Travelogue of Varis Liadon'_

We were too late.

Xyn was crumpled on the floor, Nyx heartbroken and cradling her head. Blood and
the detritus of battle surrounded them. The yuan-ti were already gone, leaving
Zephyron dead inside the apparatus.

_Nyx, you asked for help saving your sister. Will you accept help now?_

"OF COURSE!"

_I cannot change the place, but I can change the time... rest... study... choose your moment..._

With time to recover from Jack's fall, we had a chance. Only a chance against
the original tiefling, a man who's fiendish bargain changed an entire people.
But at least we wouldn't be too late to even try. Leonidas' gift to Nyx would
ensure our timely arrival.    

Randall opens our attack by breaking part of Tygras' fiendish protection.
Stalwart charges with a draconic bellow and knocks the part-fiend onto his ass,
perfectly aimed even though Tygras is still invisible. "The Summer Court is
dead; you will never be lit. I laughed when Julianna died." Stalwart smites him
in reply. Brigit dashes up next to the fool and turns his body against him,
blood starting to ooze from his eyes, ears and nose. Nyx storms into the room
and shouts to the yuan-ti "RUN! RUN AS FAR AS YOU CAN!" and the force of her
will slams the Command into their heads. I point to the ground around the fiend
and the thorny vines of my home woods twist out of the ground, containing the
threat. Sprocket battles mentally with the yuan-ti lieutenant. Fen's eyes glow
black and the panting and mockery from Tygras goes as silent as the watery
deeps.    

Between my arrows, Stalwart's sword arm, and Brigit's elemental fury, Tygras
does not last long. His last words, and whatever vengeful reply Stalwart spouts,
are lost in Fen's murky silence.

Tygras' yuan-ti lieutenant, Mathia, tries to flee across the planes, but is
foiled by the death of her patron. Mathia curses us, and Xyn's taunting reply to
the yuan-ti, "My sister's here. I'm here. Zephyron is whole. You have lost
today, snake." assures that we arrived in time.
