# February 16, 2018

_fragment of 'The Travelogue of Varis Liadon'_

Ziggy, I found my way home, at least for a little while. I'm starting to get a
handle on this plane shifting, I think. I'm even learning to use it, which
sometimes scares me a bit. But with the rapid decline in our world, I'll grab
any tool to help.

I came back, and found some of the Resistance. They've heard about new magic, so
I spent a couple days tracking it down. Finally tracked it to {CITY}, and met up
with Mack's crew. He had some local guys, so they tried to sneak into the city
for first recon. It went horribly - only Roderick made it back. He was really
torn up too - it took a lot of work for us to stabilize him. We didn't really
get any info out of him that first night.

Next day, just when we were all getting moving, a portal opened up and Irethia,
Nyx and Brigit stumbled through. Thanks Ziggy. We definitely needed the help.

I had to calm Mack down about the whole portal thing. He's never had to deal
with that weirdness. Once I filled the STB folks in about the artifact, Irethia
tried to talk to Roderick. His group was caught trying to sneak around the
cathedral. The Hands _interrogated_ his team pretty brutally (Roderick himself
lost his hand, among other injuries), but the rest of the team made a
distraction so Roderick could escape. He overheard some hints that our artifact
is in the basement of the cathedral.

After going back over the current state of the area with Mack (as terrible as
you'd expect, Ziggy), Roderick led us through the tunnels into the city. We
arrived under Emma's house (the local contact), just before the Cult. Nyx and
Brigit reacted really quickly and smartly - Brigit changed herself and Irethia
into rodents, while Nyx made herself, Roderick, and me invisible. Emma tried to
reassure the Hand knight at the door, but they were intent on searching the
house. The 2 knights came in and started searching, while the 2 undead ogres
they brought for muscle held Emma just outside the doorway.

We all tried to wait this out, since we were well hidden, but one of the knights
showed too much interest in the trapdoor. Just before he pulled the rug, I
attacked. Emma caught on instantly, and stabbed one of the undead with a dagger
and ran off. It followed her away, while we dealt with the other 3 Cult members.

Unfortunately, these knights were Hands. They had some minor necromancy, which
they used to grab me. Nyx managed to scare the ogre outside, to hold it off,
while Irethia, Brigit, and I fought the two Hands. After a few swipes back and
forth, Nyx banished the ogre in the door, so we could focus just on the Hands.
Both tried to escape, to let someone know about us. We couldn't allow that.
Brigit knocked one on his ass in the room, and Brigit and I followed the other
one outside. We finished that Hand off, and returned to find that Nyx and
Irethia had subdued the other one. He was willing to talk for his life. I pushed
him down with my sword, and just before we got anything interesting, Roderick
finally showed a spark of life. Unfortunately, he showed that by stabbing the
guard from behind. Brigit told us later that she saw a spark of recognition in
the Hand's eyes before they glazed over.

We didn't have time to deal any more with that issue - one of the ogres was
about to reappear right outside the door. With all of us prepared, it was
trivial to dispatch. We pulled bodies inside, to avoid any more Cult scrutiny.
Nyx let us know (from her owl Hedwig) that the last ogre was stumbling back, so
we all got ready to ambush it just inside the door. Again, with all of us
prepared, not a challenge.

We couldn't get to Emma. The ogre beat her to death in the middle of the street,
and no one helped. We couldn't either. Ziggy, please tell her ancestors (and
her) that we appreciate her sacrifice.

We all needed a few moments to recover after the sudden fight, and we also
needed to plan our approach to the cathedral. Unfortunately, Roderick was acting
shifty, which tipped off Nyx. She started prodding, so Irethia and I put some
pressure on Roderick. Cue the waterworks... and he's a traitor. He sold us out
for the usual Cult false promises - bring back a lost loved one. Turns out
losing that hand wasn't the usual simple torture.  

So I just killed him. Right there, in front of the STB, with no warning. I'm
amazed that they trusted me enough to not turn on me immediately. They
definitely wanted some answers... but it could've been much worse. Ziggy... how
did our world get so broken? And has it broken all of us too? If we break the
Cult, break Vecna's hold, will we be a worse cure?

No point in cleaning the house after all this. We just had to hope the Cult
would count on Roderick bringing us to them, or get lost in the maze of the
tunnels. Brigit and I pulled on the Hand's cloaks, while Nyx and Irethia went
invisible again, and we made our way towards the cathedral. When we arrived, the
Eye was holding a service. Lots of locals in attendance, so we tried to be
unobtrusive in the back until it ended. With the disguise, Brigit and I thought
we could get to talking with the Eye if necessary about 'private business from
our Eye in Zephrynell,' but we didn't know his name. That was all it took to tip
off this Eye, and he went to pull a scarily black sword.

Nyx and Irethia attempted something drastic, but both failed (or the Eye was
magically stronger), so we all tried to pull out all the stops. Unfortunately,
that sword created a _bubble of darkness_ none of us could penetrate. So much
for fighting well. Nyx kept her mind on the main mission though, and used her
broom to zip over to whatever Brigit had sensed on the far side of the building.
She came back into sight moments later with a set of stag's antlers, and then I
saw a look on Brigit's face I hope is never directed at me. It's the look I half
expected after dispatching Roderick, honestly. Still amazed I they trust me this
much. Anyways, we still had to deal with one of the nastiest fighters I've ever
met, in this world or any other. Nyx (and Brigit, and Irethia) came through in
the battle, though. Ziggy, you chose well when you sent these 3 to help. Nyx
somehow (in the middle of battle!!?!?!) convinced this guy to toss his super
scary darkness sword away for a few moments. That was about all it took, even
though he ripped me apart, nearly killed Nyx a moment later, and had Brigit and
Irethia mostly stuck. Brigit kept him pinned down while Irethia tried to help
Nyx. I managed to keep myself alive, but little else. Nyx came up spitting mad
and launched beams of fire from both hands. The Eye's head just... evaporated. I
think Brigit managed to grab his sword, but that was about the last thing we
saw. We got pulled out of our world right after the Eye died.

We got what we came for, but I'm still counting costs. We lost Emma. Roderick
betrayed the Resistance to the Cult, and we didn't get a chance to warn Mack and
his group to evacuate. I killed a man (only barely - Roderick was so young to be
this involved already) in cold blood, and I don't really regret it. And yet,
these people from Sabine's world... they got dropped or pushed into the worst
place possible, and never complained, just asked "How do we help?" In the end,
Ziggy, you chose the perfect people for the job. I can only say thank you, all
honor to you, and may you look with favor upon your humble descendant Varis.
