# Chapter 35

_fragments of 'The Travelogue of Varis Liadon'_

Ziggy, it's been a while since I was home last. I'm still traveling with the STB
in Sabine's world. They're mostly good people, but a little crazy. For example:
we voluntarily ventured into the Underdark. We also seem to have adopted a bunch
of mercs we met on our way. Hopefully they're not plants from Vecna or his
minions. I've got some scary news on that front, but we'll get to it later.

Today, we were using a balloon contraption to descend a shaft. I know. I
mentioned the crazy already. We even had to fight through a bunch of drow and
spider creatures on the way down. Yes, crazy indeed.

_torn and tattered_

The mushroom colony warned us about 'the Sleepless' - very ominous. I got in
touch with the land, and felt a fiendish presence within a few miles. Could be
related. Daina got distracted by a shiny ice stalagtite, and being Daina, tried
to break it. Her first swing just bounced off (and I'd swear I heard her axe
grumble about hitting rocks). Then she pulled a different axe (how many axes
does one dwarf need to carry around?!?), and something about that axe reacted
with the ice explosively. The whole stalagtite just disappeared. And then we
found lava underneath. Ugh, the Underdark is just stupidly hazardous.

Before we had much of a chance to wonder about the ice, axe, and lava, Nocturnus
(the idiot we've kinda been following down here) came out of the darkness to
stab one of the little myconid sprouts with the freaky sword that came back with
us from Vodram. We're definitely going to have a problem with that sword - he's
always been a little quicker to attack, but it's getting worse now that he's
carrying that sword... but I don't really have room to criticize rapid violence.
Nocturnus didn't come out of the darkness alone - a whole crowd of drow,
spiders, and more monsters followed, so we had our hands full for a little while
dealing with the small army.

_bloodstains_

Ned'zailok seems to be 1 of 4 (or 5?) lieutenants for Vecna, along with a
dragon-ish creature, an archfey, and a creepily fancy humanoid. I caught a
glimpse of their meeting through a portal a while ago (not long after I missed
hunting that doe).

_burns and tears_

I can only say thank you, all honor to you, and may you look with favor upon
your humble descendant Varis.
