# October 19, 2017

_fragment of 'The Travelogue of Varis Liadon'_

Ziggy, I popped back into Sabine's world just in time to take a punch from DAINA
in the yeast bowl. I swear, this world is the worst, except for all the others.
At least I don't hear nonsense about someone called 'Katniss' here...

It got slightly better from there. DAINA and several other Scarlet Tunic Brigade
had captured a nobleman, LORD JERREFOR, and were hauling him to face DOLF's
justice. I'm always ready to see some fancy-pants nobleman get a taste of the
real world outside their pretty manicured manor houses.

The scene with DOLF was a lot less clear to me. Someone new to me (even for this
world) cast a Zone of Truth to get reliable (ish) testimony from the lordling.
He talked circles around us as much as possible. I really should have just
stabbed him in the carriage. In the end, we did get JERREFOR to admit to
assaulting NYX and controlling some shadow demons. He demanded equal questioning
of our own NOCTURNUS WAYNE though, because it turns out one of our Brigade
members is both the newly-elected Mayor and **suspected of ballot stuffing**. I
still don't get these people, I really don't. Seriously, rigging a *mayoral*
election? I could maybe understand conniving your way into a noble title since
it lasts, but a short-term elected office just doesn't seem worth the trouble.
We also found plans for some seriously deep tunnels. SPROCKET also tried to talk
circles around the Zone of Truth to keep from spilling this find in front of
DOLF, for some reason. I thought DOLF was pretty solid, since he helped us out
when we fought the revenant. No idea why SPROCKET wouldn't trust him. In the
end, we decided that exploring dangerous tunnels was a good idea. Better than
dealing with noblemen and politicians and a Zone of Truth any day.
 
To get into the tunnels, we went through a 'public works project'. It looked
really suspicious when we arrived, so I made sure to sneak past the guards once
the fighting started to take a look inside. Turned out that there weren't any
additional nasty surprises, just the 4 strange guards. These guards had glowing
eyes that reminded me of the revenant I got to dispatch in this world during my
last jump here. We never figured out exactly what caused that, but they weren't
truly undead. I would have known. 

After disabling the guards, we found weapons hidden within barrels of preserved
foodstuffs. Seems like someone (probably the smarmy noble bastard) was smuggling
weapons. We also found the tunnel entrance thanks to SPROCKET's map. I even
found a talking shrub. It seems alive somehow, but oddly scared. It seemed to
accept me though, and turned into a little trinket, so I took it along.

Tunnels are boring. This tunnel was especially long and boring. It took us far
too long to get through it. It met the other tunnel on SPROCKET's map
eventually, in a large cavern with another just-started tunnel. We also found a
door, with suspicious sounds on the other side of it. I helped everyone stay
quiet so we could listen at the door until that oaf TIBERIUS (old people should
just stay home) tripped. We heard just enough to uncover a Drow plot to attack
the city. Upon hearing another Drow, NOCTURNUS burst into the room to confront
the enemy. Most of us stayed back and let the two idiots stumble into things.
They actually found a fight worth having though, so the rest of the Brigade
stepped in to help them eventually. We had a Drow prince with a personal bone to
pick with NOCTURNUS to fight, along with a hag, a human, and a pair of monstrous
armor suit construct things. No big deal for this many of the Brigade. Everyone
pulled their weight (more or less) and we killed all but the hag. No clue where
she disappeared to.

At this point, the rest of the Brigade had to stop for rest. Like I said, that
tunnel was far too long. Just as we all made a make-shift camp in this room, I
jumped again. I hope I don't end up in that weird world where someone called me
'Legolas' again. Ziggy, this is still the most confusing experience I've ever
had - even worse than being lost that one time in the Endless Forest. I hope
that eventually I can make the jump home. In the mean time, all honor to you,
and may you look with favor upon your humble descendant Varis.
